[general]
name=SCIMAP Toolkit
name[de]=SCIMAP Toolkit
name[es]=SCIMAP Toolkit
qgisMinimumVersion=3.28
qgisMaximumVersion=4.99
description=SCIMAP tools for catchment delineation, sediment and FIO risk mapping, network index, and flood risk mapping, with a guided panel, land cover risk weighting, and automatic result styling.
description[de]=SCIMAP-Werkzeuge für Einzugsgebietsabgrenzung, Sediment- und FIO-Risikokartierung, Netzwerkindex und Hochwasserrisikokartierung, mit geführtem Bedienfeld, Landbedeckungs-Risikogewichtung und automatischer Ergebnisdarstellung.
description[es]=Herramientas SCIMAP para delimitación de cuencas, cartografía de riesgo de sedimentos y FIO, índice de red y riesgo de inundación, con panel guiado, ponderación de riesgo por cobertura del suelo y estilo automático de resultados.
version=1.7.0
author=Sim M. Reaney, Durham University
email=sim.reaney@durham.ac.uk
about=Calculates SCIMAP spatial indices including network connectivity, erosion risk, in-channel risk, seasonal FIO delivery risk, and flood mean/stdev outputs using native WhiteboxTools hydrological processing (BreachDepressions, FD8FlowAccumulation, D8Pointer, DInfMassFlux, Watershed, DownslopeDistanceToStream) and a flow-path trace connectivity approach. Tools: SCIMAP Sediment, SCIMAP FIO, Delineate Catchment, Apply Land Cover Risk Weights, Network Index, SCIMAP Flood, Overland Flow Distance to Point, Export SCIMAP Results, and the three SCIMAP Fitted tools, numbered to be run in order (1 Catchment Statistics, 2 Calibrate Weights, 3 Ensemble Risk Maps), which infer land cover risk weights from observed water quality rather than assuming them. A guided SCIMAP panel mirrors the SCIMAP web application workflow with click-on-map pour points and impact points, an editable risk weight table, and parameter set XML that is interchangeable with the web application. Land cover rasters are reclassified into SCIMAP risk weights in the plugin, so no pre-weighted raster is required. Outputs are styled automatically with percentile-stretched colour ramps and can be exported as GeoPackage, KML, point vectors, or Cloud-Optimised GeoTIFF. Depends upon the WhiteboxTools executable also being installed. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2010.08.022
about[de]=Berechnet SCIMAP-Raumindizes einschliesslich Netzwerkkonnektivität, Erosionsrisiko, Risiko im Gewässer, saisonales FIO-Eintragsrisiko und Hochwasser-Mittelwert-/Standardabweichungs-Ausgaben mit nativer WhiteboxTools-Hydrologieverarbeitung (BreachDepressions, FD8FlowAccumulation, D8Pointer, DInfMassFlux, Watershed, DownslopeDistanceToStream) und einem Flussweg-Trace-Konnektivitätsansatz. Werkzeuge: SCIMAP Sediment, SCIMAP FIO, Einzugsgebiet abgrenzen, Risikogewichte der Landbedeckung anwenden, Netzwerkindex, SCIMAP Hochwasser, Oberflächenabflussdistanz zum Punkt, Export von SCIMAP-Ergebnissen sowie die drei SCIMAP-Fitted-Werkzeuge, nummeriert in der Reihenfolge ihrer Ausführung (1 Einzugsgebietsstatistik, 2 Gewichte kalibrieren, 3 Ensemble-Risikokarten), die Risikogewichte der Landbedeckung aus gemessener Wasserqualität ableiten, statt sie anzunehmen. Ein geführtes SCIMAP-Bedienfeld bildet den Arbeitsablauf der SCIMAP-Web-Anwendung ab, mit Auslass- und Wirkungspunkten per Mausklick, einer editierbaren Risikogewichtstabelle und Parametersatz-XML, das mit der Web-Anwendung austauschbar ist. Landbedeckungsraster werden im Plugin in SCIMAP-Risikogewichte umklassifiziert, ein vorgewichtetes Raster ist nicht erforderlich. Ausgaben werden automatisch mit perzentilgestreckten Farbverläufen dargestellt und lassen sich als GeoPackage, KML, Punktvektor oder Cloud-optimiertes GeoTIFF exportieren. WhiteboxTools muss ebenfalls installiert sein. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2010.08.022
about[es]=Calcula índices espaciales SCIMAP, incluida la conectividad de red, el riesgo de erosión, el riesgo en cauce, el riesgo estacional de aporte de FIO y las salidas de media/desviación estándar de inundación, mediante el procesamiento hidrológico nativo de WhiteboxTools (BreachDepressions, FD8FlowAccumulation, D8Pointer, DInfMassFlux, Watershed, DownslopeDistanceToStream) y un enfoque de conectividad por trazado de flujo. Herramientas: SCIMAP Sedimento, SCIMAP FIO, Delimitar cuenca, Aplicar ponderaciones de riesgo de cobertura del suelo, Índice de red, SCIMAP Inundación, Distancia de flujo superficial al punto, Exportar resultados de SCIMAP y las tres herramientas SCIMAP Fitted, numeradas según el orden de ejecución (1 Estadísticas de cuenca, 2 Calibrar ponderaciones, 3 Mapas de riesgo de conjunto), que infieren las ponderaciones de riesgo de cobertura del suelo a partir de la calidad del agua observada en lugar de suponerlas. Un panel guiado reproduce el flujo de trabajo de la aplicación web SCIMAP, con puntos de desagüe y de impacto seleccionables en el mapa, una tabla editable de ponderaciones de riesgo y XML de conjuntos de parámetros intercambiable con la aplicación web. Los rásteres de cobertura del suelo se reclasifican en ponderaciones de riesgo SCIMAP dentro del complemento, por lo que no se requiere un ráster preponderado. Las salidas se estilizan automáticamente con rampas de color ajustadas por percentiles y pueden exportarse como GeoPackage, KML, vectores de puntos o GeoTIFF optimizado para la nube. También debe estar instalado el ejecutable WhiteboxTools. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2010.08.022
tracker=https://github.com/simreaney/SCIMAP-QGIS/issues
repository=https://github.com/simreaney/SCIMAP-QGIS
category=Processing
hasProcessingProvider=yes
homepage=https://scimap.org.uk
tags=scimap,hydrology,erosion,diffuse pollution,risk,flood,catchment,watershed,fio,water quality,land cover
icon=icons/icon.svg
changelog=1.7.0 - Added SCIMAP Fitted, which infers land cover risk weights from observed water quality instead of assuming them, in three tools numbered to be run in order. Catchment Statistics delineates the catchment upstream of each monitoring site and summarises risk per land cover class inside it. Calibrate Weights searches weight space by Latin hypercube for the weights that rank the sites in the same order the observations do, scored by Spearman rank correlation; it can cross-validate, which is the check on whether a high correlation is real or an artefact of searching a large space with few observations. Ensemble Risk Maps propagates the best weight sets back onto the grid as mean/standard deviation, median/IQR and 'no regrets' priority rasters - the last showing, per cell, how many weight sets put it in their top tier, so you can see what is worth acting on whichever calibration turns out to be right. Routing runs once per land cover class rather than once per weight set, which is what makes the ensemble affordable. Fitted weights export as a parameter set XML that loads straight into Apply Land Cover Risk Weights and SCIMAP Sediment. The land cover classification scheme is now chosen explicitly: UKCEH changed its class list at LCM2015, and reading a 2015-or-later raster with the older 23-class table silently mapped Urban and Suburban to 'Other'.
 1.6.7 - Exported 3D models are now scaled to a chosen printed size (200 mm by default), centred and standing on zero, which also removes the near-coincident faces that printing services flagged: at catchment scale a single-precision step is about a millimetre, at 200 mm it is about 8 nanometres. Fixed the drape coming out upside down in glTF exports, caused by a bug in three.js r147's GLTFExporter, which sets a flip transform on its canvas and then writes DataTextures with putImageData, which ignores it. Fixed the exported model coming out smaller than asked for and off centre, because the terrain geometry holds grid vertices outside the catchment that no triangle uses.
 1.6.6 - Fixed a crash at the end of every panel run: recording the run details for the dashboard treated the land-cover class list as a dictionary. The analysis itself had already finished and its layers were loaded, but the panel reported a Python error and skipped any dashboard build. Recording run details can no longer fail a finished run.
 1.6.5 - Exported 3D models are now closed, watertight solids that 3D printing slicers accept without repair. The underside is added on export, and the sides now follow the outline of the terrain triangles rather than the grid of cells with data, which had left every diagonal along the catchment boundary open.
 1.6.4 - The dashboard can now save the 2D map as a PNG at screen or print size with a scale bar, and export the 3D terrain as glTF (.glb, keeping the draped colours), STL for 3D printing, or OBJ. Fixed the 3D controls being pushed off the bottom of the rail by the layer list, which made them look absent on a laptop screen; they now sit at the top whenever the 3D view is open. Adds the vendored three.js r147 exporters.
 1.6.3 - The dashboard risk-concentration chart now covers the whole landscape rather than only the channel network, answering how much of the catchment produces how much of the risk: the highest-risk 1/5/10/25/50% of the ground against the risk it carries, the area needed to capture 50/80/95% of the risk, and a Gini coefficient. It follows the layer chosen for the histogram. Added an optional slow automatic orbit to the 3D view, and fixed the animated flow so its risk colouring is actually visible - it was brightened by a per-channel offset that saturated two channels at every risk level.
 1.6.2 - Fixed result layers staying invisible in the web dashboard when switched on: any layer not shown by default was created fully transparent, so ticking it did nothing while its opacity slider still read 100%. Added a choice of background map in the 2D view - shaded relief, Esri Street Map, Esri Dark Gray and Esri Satellite - as proper base layers with attribution; online basemaps are now offered by default, with the offline relief still selected on opening.
 1.6.1 - Fixed an error on unload when a second copy of the plugin is installed. QGIS deletes a Processing provider whose id is already taken, so the duplicate now detects this, leaves the algorithms and menus to the copy that registered first, and says so in the Log Messages panel.
 1.6.0 - Added Create Web Dashboard: exports results as a self-contained folder with a zoomable 2D map, a 3D terrain view with draped risk and animated flow, interactive charts, run provenance and a download bundle. Opens offline by double-clicking index.html; no web server or GIS needed. Available from the Results tab of the SCIMAP panel, the Processing toolbox, and optionally after every run. Adds vendored Leaflet 1.9.4 and three.js r147, which grows the plugin download from about 100 KB to about 400 KB.
 1.5.1 - Added SCIMAP FIO, catchment delineation, land cover risk weighting with parameter set XML, result export tools, automatic colour-ramp styling, a guided SCIMAP panel with click-on-map point picking, cancellable runs, and automatic input grid alignment. Refactored into core/algorithms/gui packages. Fix issue with Whitebox Tools on Windows. 

